And since your voice level is there and everything, then just talk as you have
been. You are, from what I can gather, a Donald Wollheim discovery. There have
been a few other of those, but with the DAW books, that's where your novels
were published. How did you first get published by Donald Wollheim? Well,
apparently I'm one of these fortunate rare few. I just sent out the little book
in your basic brown paper wrapping to as many, one after the other, to as many
people as I could find in the writer's market. And he was the first one to show
interest. and he sent me a questionnaire to find out who I was and what I was
doing and said of course this isn't any good sign of selling then I'd written
the second one in the series and I sent that off to him and since he decided I
suppose that I was going to keep on producing he sent me bless his heart two
typewritten pages, single-spaced, from top to bottom, completely close. A
marvelous criticism of the book, as was, so I rewrote it for the ninth time and
sent it back, and he bought it. Was this the first science fiction book that you
had written? This is the first book I'd written. How did you come to be a writer
then? And why science fiction, of all things? Well, for the first—I've been
teaching for a number of years, and I'm also an artist. I draw a lot, and I was
much more interested in painting and drawing for my first years than I was in
writing. But I gradually came to see that while I have a gift for rendering, I
can do quite good individual objects. I don't have any feel for design, and I
wasn't willing to take the trouble to get work for that feel, so I decided to
remain very much an amateur as a painter. But having drawn that conclusion, in
being in a situation where I needed to get out. I was about ready to bang my
head against the world. I'm one of your examples of teacher burnout. So I
started writing as a way of breaking away from the job I was in. And science
fiction, well, because I've always loved it, because I thought I could write it,
And it is an awful lot of fun making up worlds. It is an awful lot of fun.
Basically, that's it. I need the distance between me and the actual nitty-gritty
reality, the sandpapering
of the dominance of real things and real people to be able to create.
This seems like a logical place to ask this question, although I was going to ask it at the end.
The covers, since you are an artist, still are an artist.
I guess it's not good to say you were an artist.
The covers on the books are, I guess, in kind of the T&A school.
And I realized that probably the art director feels that's what sells books.
But are you satisfied with the covers?
Do you think they could have been done a little better? Very
nice. Several of them I rather like. Some of them I don't
care for that much, but, well, Don Wollheim is his own art director, and he has
his own distinctive taste. I haven't really been concerned that much with the
covers. There hasn't been one that I absolutely loathe. You know, I mean, you
can stand them. I figure some of the covers that sell, Don seems to know that
pretty well. But they'll sell the first book, but I figure it's up to me to sell
the second, and the third, and the fourth. If they like what I write, it doesn't
matter what cover you put on it. Okay. Now I'd like to explore the Diadem series
since there have now been seven Diadem books published. so while you since this
is a nice long series a very enjoyable one I might add how much of it did you
have planned in advance I mean there's a lot of things that have happened and
you must have written the first book could you telescope all the way down to the
end and see where you wanted to take Aleytys or has she developed along with you
well yes and no it's like just about every one of the novels that I write I know
where I'm starting and I know my characters and I know my world in this case of
a series of worlds and I know where I'm going but how I'm going to get there
develops I don't think I can write any other way I mean it would be boring if I
knew everything before I started for example in Star Hunters one of the
secondary leads in that the woman who was more or less a toy, a plaything the
wife of one of the other secondary leads in the subplot is only supposed to be
in there for about three pages or so. But I suddenly got very interested in her,
or she got me interested in her, and she began to take over, and she became a
very important part of the book. And this was totally, totally unexpected. In
the beginning, I meant to have Aleytys reach her, find her mother and her family
in, well, about the same as the number of books. I think there'll be about nine
in all. I just finished one and turned it in. and I think that's the eighth. And
the next one will probably be the last in that particular series, dealing with
Aleytys as the main character.
Each book, I hope, shows, makes Aleytys a little bit more aware of who she is and
what she really wants rather than what she thought she wanted. And in the end,
she's going to end up, I hope, Well, satisfied with where she is, working and
living in that place for a while anyway. So I knew I was going to have her find
her mother and her mother's world. How I was going to get there, depending upon
the inspiration and the desperation of the moment. Aleytys is quite an
interesting character. How much of Aleytys is you? you. Well, to be honest, every
character in there in every one of the books, good and bad is me, because I'm
the only real resource I have for in depth knowledge of characters. But she's
also a lot of other people I've known. She's, some of her qualities are there's
some women executives I've known, some teachers that I have known, some kids.
Mostly, most for the very competent people I know that go into her, as well as
anything incompetent or asinine, or, you know, the kind of thing that makes you
bite your nails when you think about it, that's probably me. The first few books
in the series really accented the diadem. Of course, the reader has to gain an
understanding of what that is. But as the books progress, there is less and less
said about how it functions and that sort of thing. So that was modified. I
guess that's the nice thing about a series, you don't have to go back and
explain every time what the point is here, folks. Well, I also am thinking of
the series as my workshop education in writing. And the concepts I might have
had in the beginning, I'm not going to stick with them. I'll modify as necessary
as I learn more about my craft.
More and more in the last books, I hope, the character of the people that are
trapped in the diadem is coming through. And as they come out or achieve or re
-embodied or whatever you want to call it, they become more and more real to me
and more important than the diadem itself. Also, I said before that I was in a
situation where I was really banging my head against the wall. I was teaching
English, you know, and while this is very important, there were so many things
happening to my kids. I guess I got too involved with them that I was totally
helpless to alleviate things that were the pressures on them, the wounds that
they got from the world around them, that I was just absolutely useless in
helping them live through.
I created perhaps a character that was in the end a little bit too powerful, too
able to magic her way out of things. So I had to create problems for her and
help her come to an understanding of the limitations of power, which I guess is
one of the themes, if there are themes, in what I'm writing. Yeah, I enjoy the
aspect in that she discovers the power in the first few books, and then she's
comfortable with it, and then she uses it, and she's not discovering new things
about it all the time. Other than that, we get to know the people trapped in the
diadem much better. I guess I should ask you here, how did Aleytys evolve? Did
you conceive of Aleytys and then the diadem, or did the idea of the diadem hit
you, and then Aleytys is the character that naturally arose? Well, Aleytys is the
character, first of all. Actually, the first image that hit me was that first
page of the first book. I just got this feeling for something suddenly, Heavenly
and breaking
into the world that she knew, the crash of the ship of the Thief. He was also
one of the first characters I came up with. I could see him in his flight. Well,
I see these things. Once I get to know them, I'm a very visual person. This
little movie screen in the front of my head that goes through, But those are the
things that came first of all. The picture of the thief in flight, I didn't know
what he had stolen. The crashing on the world, I didn't know what that crash
meant. And slowly building up complications. I like complications. Yes, you do,
from the writing. I want to talk about a couple of things in the books that
caught my eyes. I read them. One thing in Lamarchos, which I read right after my
daughter was born, and I particularly enjoyed the descriptions of Aleytys and her
son when he was a baby because I had a baby at the same time and could see how
accurate that was, and I was really amazed at that. Then that's the book. You
kind of used the technique of leaving us up in the air at the end where she had
been captured by the—I was going to ask you to pronounce what she'd been
captured by. I never couldn't decide. but I was particularly taken with the
description of the relationship between the mother and the baby at the time.
Well, just a few months before this, my sister had had her first son, and I'd
been there, you know, the first time I'd ever been around a baby that little.
And I helped her take care of the baby a bit, and she nursed him, of course.
And, well, you know, it's just everything that we know can be expanded into
other things. Like I like – I don't know if this will sound epipop or not, but I
like small furry animals. and I could see that in a very fundamental way my
feeling for a small furry animal could be applied to that I love to pet and hold
that kind of thing could be applied to a mother and her child so that I knew
that part of it from the inside and from the outside I saw how my sister and her
baby were relating I figured I am glad to hear that it was from observation that
because I felt so helpless at the time and of course my wife knew more than I
did but I really did in Maeve and correct me if I'm pronouncing these wrong a
lot of these words I've never pronounced out loud it's always mentally I really
feel that I'm cooperating with my readers and anybody I have my own vision of
what Aleytys looks like and all the characters look like and I have my own way of
pronouncing them Maeve is No, quite as good as any of. Well, that's how I always
called it. But anyway, I figure that anyone who reads it can pronounce it any
way they like. Okay, hear, hear. Okay, and Maeve Aleytys runs into Grey, who
figures heavily in a couple of other books, and he's the company man, and that
was an interesting transition for me to see her as feeling as though she were an
outlaw and hated the company, and then she became part of the company. Is that
something that occurred to you later on in the series? In U.S. No, to be honest,
this is one of my prejudices coming out, but I never saw The Hunters as a
company as such. I saw them more as an association of individuals, of very, very
prima donna individuals in a lot of ways so that they don't get together with
this sort of corporate consciousness that I've felt in many of the big
companies. So in a sense, she's never been reconciled to the way that the
companies operate. Also, the fact that while it is, I guess you're right, it is
a company, it does not deal that directly with the exploitation of worlds. It
only comes in as a troubleshooter and as a wielder of expertise.
And I very quickly got her so that she could pick and choose as much as possible
her own hunts
so that, you know, if something was really smelled rotten to her, she would just
say, forget it. And then the Star Hunters was the first book in which she was a
hunter, and that kind of allows you to go off on a little bit different tangent.
Sure, she wants to find her mother's world and her mother, but this gives her
something interesting to do in the meantime. Well, it's not only that, it's her
road to get there. You know, I've supported myself since I was 17, and I have a
very... One of the things that has bothered me about a lot of... Well, not a
lot, but some of the books I've read, which I've enjoyed in other ways, is
people just don't seem to have that much trouble getting from place to place.
You know, they pick up the money or they already have their spaceships or
whatever.
And I always thought that she really needs a good, believable way of getting
from world to world. You know, and that she's going to have to work quite hard
to do this in a lot of ways. So that Hunters was my way of eventually helping
her to survive, getting her from world to world. and eventually getting her her
ship.
From things I've read in economics and so on, spaceships are not going to be
cheap things ever, even in the distant
future where they seem to be hopping all over the place. You can see what it
takes. It takes a whole nation to provide off her a spaceship, the shuttle. So I
figured that she is going to have a way, she's not going to steal it, of
acquiring herself transportation, transportation that can free her from
dependence upon other people. And that's what she's basically gone into Hunter's
Floor. Also, it has developed. I hadn't intended her to stay there that long,
but it has developed as a place where she can have friends and slowly begin to
insert herself into the life of the world rather than being the total loner
always. She got kind of lonesome. Understandably so. The Nowhere Hunt, now I'm a
chemist. I'm not an English professor or anything, but I enjoy books from a
literature point of view, but to me The Nowhere Hunt introduced, this was a
different style where you used the alternate points of view of Aleytys and Roha.
Is this your experimenting with this kind of presentation? Well, you see, each
one is a very cautious experimentation. The one after that, Ghost Hunt, is much
more experimental. It leaps about a bit more. It's kind of jerky, actually. I
mean, it leaps from point to point and point of view to point of view and
writing style quite a bit more than The Nowhere Hunt. But yeah, I was trying out
something new, trying to look at things from several sides at once, or at least
two sides at once, and contrasting viewpoints using each viewpoint as the
outsider, and the little witch girl or whatever it is, I've forgotten
her name now. I call it Roha, R-O-H-A. Yeah, using her point as the one who is
totally immersed within her society. And besides, it was a lot of fun developing
that society. Yeah, that was quite a complicated society. Then, of course, the
twist in that book was that Swarhelt was released. Had you always intended to
release these poor... Actually, I got the diadem on here, and I figured I was
going to get it offered somehow. But I went for a walk, and I suddenly said,
hey, what if? And so in the one I just finished that they bought, it'd probably
be out in about a year, called Trek Across Ibex. The second one comes out.
Sadist the singer gains herself a 14-year-old body. And she's going to continue
as poet and singer. And I might take her on her adventures on after a while.
She's a very interesting little person. But, no, I didn't intend that. I didn't
even think about that when I started. But those energy creatures or whatever,
the big bubble things that kept getting together, they sort of, when I thought
them up, I said, huh. You know, if they suck the life out of you and turn you
into a vegetable, maybe. You know, and that sort of worked it out. It was, as I
said, very interesting, and then it made the relationship between the two of
them much more complicated than it had been before, and as I said, the
complications are what I like. Okay.
Okay, I should think, I'll just make an editorial statement here, I should think
that Aleytys after the Diadem Dwellers Are Gone would be an interesting person
to write about, too. Yeah, I am going to leave her for a while, though. I've got
something very sneaky worked out, I hope, if I use it, for the, the sorceress,
who was the original captive of the diadem. And once she's out, the whole thing
falls off and Aleytys is free. There is this little time bomb that I've given
Aleytys, though, the fact that she's possibly, or at least close to immortal or
at least a very long life. as compared to the people around her, which makes it
possible later on to jerk her out of the society that she's going to have her
home in for a while, and perhaps I'll do something more with her, having to face
the decision to leave, you know, and what she's going to do from then. It's
interesting. I don't know. It depends on whether I'm too involved in other
things. Takes me a long time to write these things, you know, about three years
each. But then I'm writing about three or four at the same time, overlapping
them at different stages, you know. Ghost Hunt then came along, and as you
mentioned, It does have perhaps the more trying form of writing, which was from
three points of view. And this one was the first one, if I recall, that was kind
of an urban setting. It was an adventure science fiction. She didn't get raped
and beat up on. And this, again, is something different for you, just more
experimenting, more expanding your writing. Yep. and the next one the one I was
talking about the trek across Ibex is your basic trek story where you cross the
world and get back again and I've done something different in that one too I've
thrown in some fairy tales sort of stories which I'm probably going to do more
of the one I'm working on right now the third in the trilogy the Duel of Sorcery
trilogy is you're talking about different points of view. I've been writing what
is basically four novelettes with four viewpoint characters and writing them all
separately. I'm just about finished with those. Next week or the week after, I'm
going to start braiding them all together. It's been fascinating. I'll try
playing them off against each other, looking for echoes and all sorts of chimes
and heightened
suspense and contrast and all of this kind of thing leading up to the final
battle, but four very, very different characters, female characters. So it's
going to be a complicated book, too. This is, again, this is a question I was
going to ask at the end, but it's a good place to bring it up. I empathize with
this completely, but Aleytys really likes to be clean and take a bath. And it
drives her nuts to be all yucky and all that out in the wilderness. And that's
one thing I've really enjoyed because it makes her feel like a real person.
Well, I grew up on a farm. And after you've exercised a lot, and this is a farm
in California where it's been about a month. in the San Joaquin Valley. They're
both going between 100 and 108. And if you've ever worked on a farm hoeing weeds
or plowing or whatever,
you know, picking watermelon or anything like this, you'll know that the first
thing you head for when you come in is a bath because you stink. and you are
dirty and you have you're uh covered with dust and uh pollen and uh oh it's just
miserable and i uh also i've done a lot of backpacking into mountains and
camping out by myself too and if you are away from water a few days that first
touch of the even the icy See cold water is bliss. There's a lot of me in that,
too. Okay. I have a quote, a two-sentence quote that I want to read and ask you
something about it. This is from Ghost Hunt, and this is the chapter in which
Tamaris and Aleytys are meeting all the people on the planet. And the quote is,
Tamaris stretched her nose and grinned at what she had written. All the
description wasn't especially necessary, but it was fun to write. was that you
talking, really? Oh, of course. Yes, yes. It is.
The writing I find more and more difficult as I get, I guess, know a bit more
about it. But it never stops being fun, especially the first parts where you're
just scratching down notes, where you're making up descriptions, where you're
looking down names, You're making up myths and constellations and maps and
putting
together societies. It's fun. It's playing a game in a
way that nobody else in the world is going to ever play it. and when you get
down to the hard slugging work putting it all together at least the first draft
why that's what keeps you going through it and of course I've heard a lot of
people complain about rewriting but I love rewriting this is when you begin to
play with the words and you get the cadences and you get the the sentences to
read smoothly and you get the effects that you want this is the fun time you've
already got all that material And now you're messing with it. But that's why it
takes so long to write a book, right? Yeah. If I were really efficient, then
sometimes my good old country Puritan work ethic background gets onto me, I
would try
to do it all in the first draft, but forget it. That's too much fun doing the
playing. It also means that I'm not very organized. Hmm. Well, as a reader, your
effort is well appreciated. Especially in that part of the book with the
description all and the names, it really reminded me quite a bit of Jack Vance,
which to me is the ultimate compliment. Thank you very much. Yes, I agree.
Basically, I look back and a lot of that was not necessary. But I was enjoying
myself. So I figured maybe the reader would, too. Yes, point well made. The
critics like your books generally. There are a few picky, but by and large, they
really like them, and the one thing they all say, whether they like them or not,
is that your characters are strong and good and believable. And this is
different from most science fiction because it's not generally considered to be
a character literature, and it's the reason I particularly like your works. So
from what you've said, that characters really mean a lot to you, there's part of
you in them, and you really work hard on them. Oh, yes. Yes. Actually, as I go
on, I've come to the understanding that this is the kind of book I like to read.
For example, I've just finished two mainstream novels that I really enjoyed very
much, and that's principally because of the characters. And that was John
Powell's Daniel Martin, which is a book about a writer in a way, which I found
fascinating. And he's marvelous with characters, especially women, and John
Gardner's Meadow, Mickelson's Ghost, which was also had a very strong and, to
me, interesting character in it. And I'm trying to go deeper and deeper into my
characters. The more I write, that seems, as I said, to be the thing that I'm
really most interested in, who these people are and why they do it. The rest is
fun, but this is serious. The characters are serious as far as I'm concerned.
You also, though, the settings are very rich and they're varied from book to
book, that you have an efficacy with languages. The aliens are believable, so
it's not just all your characters. Well, like I said, that's where the artist
side comes in. There are a lot of writers who have art as an avocation rather
than their vocation. Because it is the artist's eye. You begin, when you look at
things, when you learn to look at things as an artist, you look at things in
terms of shape and form. And also, each thing is individual. Each thing has its
own form, its own shape. Each blade of grass, in a certain sort of way, each
leaf, each tree, is very, very individual. it's one way to avoiding cliché if
you see things clearly enough and if they are individual enough it's impossible
to write in clichés or trite overused language I think
Okay to review Aleytys then you've got a couple of more you're planning on a
couple of more books with Aleytys and the Diadem and then you'll just kind of
drop back and punt and see what develops with Aleytys or those characters.
Right, I think so. With Aleytys for sure. I just about got her so I know her so
thoroughly that I don't have any more stories for her. I won't have after this
next one. So I'm going to leave her for a while. At least a while. Maybe
forever, I don't know. That depends. And go on in other directions. I like long
series, but not long, long. I like closed-end series, you know, the finite
series, where you eventually come to some resolution. Otherwise, it just starts
getting old. And I think what would happen is if I kept on writing about her, I
would start writing in formula, and I would get very distressed with myself for
that. I've been very, very fortunate. in that the books are sold well enough,
and Don keeps, Wollheim keeps buying them, for which I thank him, that I've been
able to do each one as a thing in itself, individual in itself, following no
formulas, following nothing but where the story goes and where the character
goes. That's a blessing, and I don't want to give it up. So it's going to be
very much a shut series.
Okay. I want to switch now to the, what's been christened, I guess, the Duel of
Sorcery series. The first question I'll ask you is, why did you switch from
science fiction to fantasy? Oh, because a cockroach sat down beside me one day.
That is the literal truth.
is one of these huge ones, about three inches long. And I was sitting, you know,
I told you I lived in this little place, a little shotgun apartment above a
private house. And I was sitting on the steps waiting for the mailman to come.
It's a thing I do, you know, riders do. And this cockroach came crawling down
the side of the house. And it sat there, and it looked at me. And, you know,
your first reaction with a cockroach is, smash it. But I decided to just sit
there and look at it, and it's an interesting little creature. Actually, it's
kind of pretty in its way. Very nice lines. Very bright black eyes. Looks alert.
And we just sat there, and we looked at each other for a while. And so I decided
to write a story about a cockroach, and I decided that it was going to be
fantasy. It just seemed to fit in fantasy. And that cockroach ended up, I
believe, with about maybe 10 pages out of 300 or something like that. But he was
in there. He was my inspiration. And, I don't know, it just felt like a writing
fantasy. It wasn't any great or momentous decision. It's just the way it turned
out. Now that you've written or at least have published all of two fantasy books
and with the obvious sequel coming out, is it any different to write fantasy
since it's a little more freewheeling? You're a little bit less limited by the
rules, or do you find it to be that way? Well, I am one of those who really
believe that there are rules to magic. I don't believe in magic at all, but it's
fun to play with. It's, I don't know, it's sort of an extension of the psionics,
which is probably,
at present, is not a science either. It might be, but many people are skeptical
about that. But I can't...
It is just the same thing, in a sense, as writing science fiction, only you
write in other
terms the same kind of rule-keeping.
you can play with visual things and possibilities in a different way it's not
more loose than science fiction if you do it properly I think it just has a
different set of assumptions. And it's fun to play with those assumptions.
Sarawi? Is that how it's pronounced? Sarai. Sarai, okay, I really butchered
that. Say however you want, like I said. Sarai, okay, I'd prefer to pronounce it
as you do. Sarai? Okay, Sarai. Maybe I'll adopt that. I like that, Sarai? Well,
my daughter's name is Sarah, so it kind of, it made me think about it like that.
she's a bit like Aleytys. She's a cast off and she's a strong female character.
They both have red hair. They didn't have happy childhoods. That seems to be
something that you've come back to again. My own childhood was extremely happy
but I've taught in inner city schools for something like 14 years. I did. and
happy childhoods were the exceptions, also they explain a lot of things, too,
things that go wrong for people, unhappy childhoods, too.
I suppose it's...
I'm going to have to think about that a bit, because you're right.
It's because of the outsider idea rather so much than the unhappiness. Because
as I said, mine was a very happy child. We lived on the farm and we worked hard.
But again, we're a very close family. But I'm very much an outsider from a lot
of viewpoints myself. So I suppose that's going to show up again and again in
all of my female characters. They are the people who look on, who interact, but
then step away from a lot.
It probably came from the same source. You're right. You mentioned strong female
characters. Do you plan to continue writing mainly with female characters as the
lead protagonists anyway? Yeah, because I know a woman from the inside out. you
know, from under the skin out and that's one of the things I'm interested in
although I'm not, you know
I might just as a trial try one with a male character as the lead it would be
much harder for me I suppose that's why when they were all men writing there
were so many boys and men main characters, it's simply easier um and that's one
of the reasons I keep writing short stories, because I can't do it. So I'm very
stubborn about that kind of thing. So I'll probably end up one of these days
having a male character as the main character. Maybe a book with all men in it,
rather than as one of my favorite books is. Oh, dear. Have you ever had this
block in the back of your head? Many times. Mother Lines, Mother Lines by Susie
Charnas where she had a book with all females in it. I might try the opposite
thing but I don't know. There are a lot of small cultural things that I know
about being women together that I probably wouldn't know about being men
together. Not only just the outside feelings but the way people relate to each
other and the way people react to the stimulus. In our culture and in other
cultures, women and men do this differently. Perhaps because it's something
innate, but perhaps it's just something that is cultural. But it is also
something that's very important to me in creating the characters. So I don't
know. They'll probably be mostly male. I wanted to ask you a bit about the
mechanics of writing Moongather since it was written in alternate chapters, the
woman and the child. I'm curious, how do you do this mechanically? Do you write
the woman all the way through and the child all the way through and then chop it
up or do you actually write it in the sequence at which it was published? I read
a lot of it in the sequence in which it was published. There are a lot of
things, I guess, private to me because people haven't noticed them. that one
section would suggest to me to put into the next section. So the book, strangely
enough, was written in the order in which it eventually turned out, although it
changed a great deal. If you saw my first draft, you wouldn't even recognize the
book. They changed so much in between drafts. Things become multilayered instead
of straightforward. what time and drafting does for me. Another thing you write
from the perspective of a woman because that's what you know better and I
certainly understand that, but you also write well from the perspective of a
child and we're all children once, but not everybody remembers that and that
also would require, I think, putting yourself, what was it like back then and
remembering. You also have to remember, though, that I've been a teacher for a
number of years, and I've dealt with children, not young, young children,
actually. The youngest have been seventh graders, but I've spent a lot of time,
especially the last six years of my teaching, with kids and getting to know them
pretty well. So the way they react... I've got an awful lot of material from my
teaching days. There's enough there about human nature and about reaction to
last me for 100 years. It's very difficult to write and teach at the same time,
because both are very exhausting procedures. I come home from school so tired
that it's almost impossible sometimes to pick up the pencil or the pen. I write
all my first drafts with a pen, not the typewriter, I can't do it on typewriter.
But it also is invaluable
teaching you how people work together and how they don't work together, giving
you insights into character and so on.
Actually, I'd recommend to any writer that they teach a couple of years. A lot
of people, a lot of science fiction writers have. But once they start really
seriously writing, they'll have to stop teaching. It's just too exhausting. So
you don't teach right now? Actually, I was fortunate enough, before I went
crazy, to be able to quit. I'd just sold the fourth book, and I'd sold
everything I'd written since I'd started. So I figured that was a reasonably
good sign, and so I said, oh, well, let's quit this. And I did. Where will you
take, okay, will you take the Duel of Sorcery? It's presumably a trilogy now.
Are you going to take it further or use that same milieu for your adventures? I
will probably use the same milieu. One of the things I find, in making up these
worlds and the cultures, I get so much information that I can't use in the
stories that I have a lot of stuff left over and it's available for use with
other stories. So I'm probably going to use the milieu or maybe move the culture
a couple hundred years in the future and start off from there and see what
happens. that I'm going to have one hell of a mix-up at the end of this changes
moon, which is the next one. And that's the one I'm working on now, that's got
the four character viewpoints. Oh, it's going to have a marvelous battle in the
end. It's going to have one hell of a magic scene when the two sides meet, and
it's going to be sad. A good tear-jerker too. Oh, no. Okay. Okay, listen. That's
the end of my questions. I didn't hit on the short stories, but I don't read as
many short stories as I should. I work for a living, and I have to draw the line
somewhere, so I don't read very many short stories. But I really enjoy your
novels, particularly the Aleytys. I'm more of a science fiction than a fantasy
fan. I like it. And really look forward to seeing what's coming out. Oh, yeah. I
hope you enjoy them. By the way, one of the things that I really want people to
do is just enjoy them. I have loved to read since I was four years old. And it's
one of the things I tried to teach my kids to do when I was teaching them, just
plain love to read. Now, that's what I want people to do with what I write. Just
enjoy the hell out of them. They are very enjoyable. Let me ask you a favor of
sorts. I'm a book collector. Could I possibly get my books autographed by you?
If I send you the books and the return postage and all that, okay, fine. Would
that be any problem? No problem at all. Okay, great. Just the address that I
used to contact you, that's, okay. The one on iris, but yeah. Great. I
appreciate it. That kind of makes this special to kind of cap it off. I enjoyed
your work immensely. That's the reason I wanted to interview you, and we'll get
you the tapes when we get them made and as I said it'll be the fall and I'll get
you my books and thank you and thank you for the interview Okay, this was fun
Very nice Thanks again Bye-bye now